---
templateKey: blog-post
title: ffconf 2019 v11
date: 2019-11-09T15:05:07.328Z
description: 'or:'
tags:
  - blogging
---

https://vimeo.com/showcase/2509484

09:50 — 10:30SHARON STEED@SHARONSTEED
Engaging Empathy
My talk
Empathy and vulnerability aren't necessarily two words associated with professional success, but they're invaluable to achieving long-term goals leaders set for their companies. Lets both define what those look like at work and how to engage them for optimized collaboration.

My origin
I always loved the tech industry but I couldn't code and never worked at a tech company. So I started speaking at conferences about what I knew: stuttering, marketing and vulnerability. One day, I got invited to speak at a tech conf (Hi @jremsikjr 👋🏾)

10:30 — 11:10AMINA ADEWUSI@A_ADEWUSI
What does it take to become a developer in 2020?
My talk
Amina shares her story about what it takes to become a developer after teaching herself how to code, juggling a full-time job and baby.

My origin
I taught myself how to code soon after becoming a mother. I realised that continuing my job travelling around the world was a slightly optimistic view of my mothering abilities! After googling "work from home" I discovered software engineering and decided to give it a go.

11:10 — 11:40
Coffee break (30 mins)
11:40 — 12:20ALICE BARTLETT@ALICEBARTLETT
Getting more from Git
My talk
Git is like a Swiss Army Knife for telling the story of your project. Yet most of us are only using the big knife and maybe the scissors to fudge our code into version control. In this talk we're going to learn about some more advanced Git commands and some history too.

My origin
Needed a 5th option to study at AS level. Asked the person next to me. Started with the Computing A level now we here.

12:20 — 13:00LAURA KALBAG@LAURAKALBAG
8 Unbelievable Things You Never Knew About Tracking
My talk
The web, and big tech at large, is tracking our every move, habit, and facial expression. As developers who are also users, we both contribute to the surveillance system and are exploited by it. But it doesn’t have to be this way.

My origin
In my teens I made fan sites for local bands and a showcase for my own creepy goth art. Slicing pictures of websites into table layouts even though they’d been uncool for a couple of years already, because I just did what the first search result told me.

13:00 — 14:30
Lunch break (90 mins)
Recommendations at ffconf.org/food.
Travelling alone? Meet new friends with tables booked at Al Campo or stay at the cinema and order a pizza!

14:30 — 15:10HARRY ROBERTS@CSSWIZARDRY
From Milliseconds to Millions: A Look at the Numbers Powering Web Performance
My talk
We all know performance is big business, but how big? Let's take a look at some of the numbers powering the web performance industry, from both sides of the table. What do performance improvements mean for my clients, and how do we translate that into a working relationship

My origin
I'm a failed designer who learned it the hard way: I was much better at coding my portfolio site than I was at designing it. I decided to admit defeat and stick with keyboards and clearfixes.

15:10 — 15:50ANNA MIGAS@SZYNSZYLISZYS
Effortless Performance Debugging
My talk
During the session we will talk about the causes of painful performance and look into simple and actionable steps how to make a website more performant with a little effort.

My origin
I wanted to study English, but my final test results weren't good enough. I was looking through all majors I could apply for at Uni and found out HCI-like degree course

15:50 — 16:15
Ice cream break (25 mins)
16:15 — 16:55CHARLOTTE DANN@CHARLOTTE_DANN
Taking The Web Off The Screen
My talk
The rise of generative art has brought a whole new wave of creativity to the web; this talk is about the myriad of ways we can use all that coding knowledge to make cool art in the physical realm.

My origin
Got carried away tweaking Tumblr themes, discovered it hurt my fingers less than my other teen hobby of weaving chainmaille, been tip tapping ever since.

16:55 — 17:35SUZ HINTON@NOOPKAT
Adventures in reinventing interfaces
